---
layout: post
title: Week 11
---

### Week 11: The Cathedral and the Bazaar (Continued); Team Progress


## Reflecting on certain lessons from The Cathedral and the Bazaar

***"Perfection (in design) is achieved not when there is nothing more to add, but rather when there is nothing more to take away."***

I believe this lesson hints most toward the concept of redundancy in design/code. Great design should be minimally redundant and maximally efficient. When there is nothing more to take away from a project, it can be safe to say that the best approach to the problem, within the chosen solution has been reached. 


***”Often, the most striking and innovative solutions come from realizing that your concept of the problem was wrong.”***

I believe this lesson rings very closely with the truth. Often times, developers could spend extra time working on an incorrect approach to a solution. Coming to know about such mistakes, especially when it is about why the conceptualization was wrong, can give developers a deeper understanding of the problem. 


## My Favorite Lesson from The Cathedral and the Bazaar

***Treating your users as co-developers is your least-hassle route to rapid code improvement and effective debugging.***
This lesson rings with an idea I learned from my mentor in an internship I took up after sophomore year: requirements gathering is as much a part of a project’s development as any. When I think of the term “co-developer”, I don’t just think of the coders that build a project, I think of everyone involved, including the end-users. While it can be difficult trying to understand the user’s needs, it is ultimately their problems that need solving, and the best way to come up with a solution is to listen to the users.
Another reason why this lesson is as important to me is that soon after graduation, I’ll be working as a Software Engineer for a non-tech company that is big on consumer technology. I believe this lesson is the very essence of the company’s mission and therefore, supports a vision I’ll be working with in the next phase of my life. 


## Progress: Team Project

We have started work on the issue I found for my team last week. After dividing the “todo” comments I found in the documentation, we all committed our suggested changes to our fork of the project’s repository. 

I’ve found more issues for my team to work on, which I’ll divide evenly amongst my team members and document our progress. 

I’ve also been in touch with the admins about possible old issues that need work, but were taken by other developers and never fixed. 

