---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

### Week 1: My First Post

## What Open Source means to me?

When I think of “open source”, I think of something that is publicly accessible. Upon applying the idea to software, the definition (for me) becomes broader. Open source software represents to me a set of projects built on the principles of collaboration, transparency, participation, and continuous development. 

The most obvious advantages of open source software that come to mind when I compare it to its counterpart are the principles of freely available software and easy access. The barrier to entry for a lot of closed source software could be high depending on cost and restricted access, which makes it harder to access for coders looking to fulfill their software needs. Moreover, a large community contribution makes the software more secure due to easy, and hence, constant bug fixing and updating by the community. 

While there are many benefits to using open source software, there also exist certain disadvantages like side costs and compatibility issues. Some open source software, could be hard to learn or hard to contribute to, which gives rise to side costs like time and effort spent on learning it. Furthermore, open source software can have compatibility issues when working with proprietary software, making it hard to build certain capabilities. 

## Why I chose this course?

I chose this course because even with my internship level experience in the industry, I’ve observed a major shift in companies big and small, tech and non-tech, toward open source practices. On a more personal level, I believe I’ve been using the term “open source” somewhat loosely, with not enough knowledge about the mechanics (like licensing, contribution policy, etc) behind the concept. 

## My top four open source projects:

Blender: I spent a summer working with IBM Research where they are big on the use of open source software. There I was introduced to blender, an open source software that I used to build 3D avatars for a VR app. 

Atom: I use atom for almost all my coding needs to this day, and I think it’s one of the best text editors out there, especially for writing js.

Firefox: Before switching to chrome, I always used Firefox as my primary browser due to its easy extension management. 

Ubuntu: I used to use Ubuntu before I switched to Mac OS, and its special to me because I first started coding using it. 
