---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

### Week 9: First Team Workshop & Thoughts on Wikipedia

## Group Project Progress: Scikit-Learn

In our first week of working as a team, we worked mostly on team logistics and planning. This involved picking a suitable time (outside class) for all team members to meet in-person to not only work on issues and contributing together, but allow for a kind of collaboration that is driven by peer evaluation and meticulous planning. For this reason, we decided to meet on Mondays after class, so we can plan our parts for the week ahead, and boost our productivity in our in-class workshops on the following Wednesdays. 

In our first team workshop on Wednesday, we looked for easy/beginner-friendly issues on the project’s Issues page. However, we discovered that while there exist a large number of such issues, they get taken up relatively quickly due to the popularity of the project. We therefore decided to go through all parts of the project in order to find some issues that we will raise and help fix ourselves. 

As a result, I found some tasks labeled “todo” on the project’s glossary. I have already raised an issue about one such comment, and plan to distribute the rest evenly amongst my team members in order to ensure fairness, and help everyone get started on the project. Currently, I’m waiting to hear back from the admins about how they want us to raise and pick these issues. 

I believe the first week of our team’s project was incredibly eye-opening. I learned that people (at times) can be very fierce in order to get involved in popular projects like scikit-learn. However, there is still an etiquette that follows when it comes to picking issues and contributing, which possibly stems from mutual respect amongst open source contributors. For example, many issues that seem to have been picked up by someone but not yet fixed, have polite requests in the form of comments for someone else to give them a shot. It seems to make contribution fun, and less like a race. 

Last, but not least, my first real contribution to the project came was accelerated by the fast response time of the admins who seemed both helpful and grateful. 


## Thoughts on Wikipedia

I believe that most people that contribute to Wikipedia could be experts in their fields or just well-versed in the topics they choose to write about, but the fact that they get past the barrier (however small) of learning how to contribute, tells me that these are people who share a passion (active or passive) for free distribution of knowledge. It is incredible how this passion rings with the principles of Open Source Software development. 

As much as I would like to be a contributor to Wikipedia, I believe I won’t be a regular “content” contributor till I have what is called a “T-shaped” skill set, where the hat of the T represents my knowledge of many things in a particular field (hopefully technology), and the base represents my expertise in my area of interest. Once I believe I have attained enough knowledge, I would love to become a regular contributor of content. 

For the scope of this class however, I would like to contribute to smaller issues like fixing typos, broken links, etc. For this, I will pick pages that I have enough knowledge about thanks to my wonderfully holistic education at NYU. In my time here, I’ve taken not just CS courses, but classes that taught me a great deal about the history of western civilization, economics, and even Greek philosophy and theater. I would definitely like to use these as my base of knowledge in trying to contribute to Wikipedia. 

Finally, I found Jimmy Wales’ talk on the Birth of Wikipedia fascinating. The scale and popularity of Wikipedia is so much higher now when compared to that presented by Wales. 
I found Wales’ initial statements about the idea behind Wikipedia incredibly interesting. In his words (paraphrasing), the aim of Wikipedia is to make it possible for every single person in the world to have free access to the sum of all human knowledge. However, this got me thinking about how even though the internet is free, connecting to it is not. This makes Wikipedia a little less reachable. Furthermore, studies suggest that even now, only 47% of the world uses the internet. This furthers Wales’ statement from the reality a little more, and makes me wait for a time when everyone can access the internet “freely.”



