---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---

### Week 10: The Cathedral and The Bazaar; Free vs. Open; Team Progress Report


## Difference Between Cathedral and Bazaar Models

I believe that the cathedral model of represents a “closed” kind of development environment (the actual environment for the developers, not the code environment), in which a smaller group of developers work on and manage the project. The project allows little or no room for outside input. 

The bazaar model, on the other hand, represents a more “open” kind of development environment which allows for contributions from many small groups that handle different aspects of the project. 

While I believe each model has its place in the world of software development, having been a student who has taken up small group projects through classes, or smaller development projects through internships, I believe I’ve mostly experienced working with the cathedral model. However, I have more faith in the success of the Bazaar model due to the fact that it rings more closely with the values behind open source projects.


## Lessons from The Cathedral and The Bazaar

The following lessons are really important to me for two reasons: after graduation, I’ll be working as a software engineer for a non-tech company that pays heavy focus on consumer technology; therefore, end users are really important to me. Furthermore, I believe that the requirements gathering stage in a software project is one of the most important aspects of development. 

**_Treating your users as co-developers is your least-hassle route to rapid code improvement and effective debugging._**
This lesson rings with an idea I learned from my mentor in an internship I took up after sophomore year: requirements gathering is as much a part of a project’s development as any. When I think of the term “co-developer”, I don’t just think of the coders that build a project, I think of everyone involved, including the end-users. While it can be difficult trying to understand the user’s needs, it is ultimately their problems that need solving, and the best way to come up with a solution is to listen to the users. 

**_Release early. Release often. And listen to your customers._**
This lesson reminds me of another lesson I learned early on as a developer: making small, iterative changes is the best way to change and improve a product. By releasing early, we allow for the customer to test any changes early. By releasing often, we allow ourselves to react to the customer’s needs rapidly. 


## Free vs. Open Source Software

From what I understand, free and open software are as similar as they are different. Both free and open software allow users to read, modify, run, and distribute. However, the difference comes in when considering costs and values related to each type of project. Free software is built with a set of principles and values, adding to its cost an ideology that guides the development of the project. Open source software, on the other hand, might not have such a defined set of values dictating it, though it could have some latent expectations from the user. 


## Progress toward Team Project: Scikit-Learn

I believe our team is on track to make good progress with the project. With the development environment setup complete and successful for all team members, we can finally start contributing to the project’s source and documentation as a team. 

In this past week, I’ve found two more issues in the documentation, which I have brought to the admin’s attention. I have not yet raised an issue about these findings since I’m waiting on the admin’s concerns about certain specifics. One of the issues is about having two sets of “advanced installation instructions” on the project’s website. I believe the one that works (updated version) is not the one the website points to when navigating. The other issue I’ve noticed is the lack of specific installation instructions for 32-bit vs. 64-bit windows systems. Since one of my team members has a windows machine, and has suffered the consequences of this issue, I’ve handed over the issue to him. 

The most important thing I’ve learned this week is with that a project as popular and more importantly, as code-heavy as Scikit-Learn, it can often be the case that smaller issues like documentation errors are easily looked over. This tells me that my team can make major changes and contributions to the documentation, which could ultimately get us in the spotlight enough to start making code contributions as well. 

In the coming week or two, we’ll be working on fixing the issue I found for team last week, which was to fix a bunch of “todo” tasks on the project’s glossary. I will then shift focus toward the two more issues I found, and eventually look for possible code contributions. 
